chapter 03: clutter is your enemy!

Identifying and removing the non-informative data

excessive or extraneous cognitive load: In cognitive psychology, cognitive load refers to the effort being used in the working memory. Cognitive load theory differentiates cognitive load into three types: intrinsic, extraneous, and germane (by Wikipedia).

Cognitive load = mental processing power

Extraneous cognitive load: processing that takes up mental resources but doesn’t help the audience understand the information

Option: try to maximize data\ink or signal\to\noise ratio

Clutter: visual elements that take up space but don’t increase understanding （too complicated to understand)

Gestalt Principles of Visual Perception: used to help explain how we organize sensory information.
1. proximity 接近性
2.similarity 相似性 Objects that are of similar color, shape, size, or  orientation are perceived as related or belonging to part of a group.
3. enclosure 封闭性 objects that are physically enclosed together as belonging to part of a group.
4. closure,people like things to be simple and to fit in the constructs that are already in our heads.
5. continuity 连续性
6. connection. people tend to think of objects that are physically connected as part of a group.

Decluttering:
1. Remove chart border
2. Remove gridlines
3. Remove data markers
4. Clean up axis labels
5. Label data directly
6. Leverage consistent color

chapter 04 focus your audience's attention

preattentive attributes:

(A preattentive visual property is one which is processed in spatial memory without our conscious action. )

Seeing process: object ---seeing action --- information processed by brain.

Memory in brain: 
1. iconic memory: super fast, with efficiency of sight and speed of response, without realizing
2. short\term memory: people can keep about four chunks of visual information in their short\term memory at a given time. Cognitive burden weaks the ability of communication.
3. long\term memory: built up over a lifetime and is vitally important for pattern recognition and general cognitive processing

Make things remarkable!  ===>> enable our audience to see what we want them to see before they even know they’re seeing it!

(1). Preattentive attributes in text ==> create visual hierarchy to focus audience's attention
(2). Preattentive attributes in graphs ==> colorful visual cues
(3). Position on page


chapter 05 think like a designer

Form follows function.

1. affordances: aspects inherent to the design that make it obvious how the product is to be used.
   (1) highlight the important stuff--bold, case, color, inversing elements, size;
   (2) eliminate distractions-- Push necessary, summarize;
   (3) create a clear hierarchy of information.


2. accessibility: designs should be usable by people of diverse abilities.
  (1) don’t overcomplicate 
  (2) text

 3. aesthetics:  easier to use, promote creative thinking and problem solving
  (1).color
  (2) pay attention to alignment
  (3) leverage white space


Chapter 06  dissecting model visuals

Model visual #1: line graph

Model visual #2: annotated line graph with forecast:  bold-- emphasized  ntentionally

Model visual #3: 100% stacked bars:  color-- single attention\grabbing color and words make the visual accessible

Model visual #4: leveraging positive and negative stacked bars

In closing:

(1) the choice of graph type and ordering of data.

(2) the use of color, thickness, and size -- to emphasize and de\emphasize components

